A smart printing service for students at HCMSIU 
The university is intent to build a Student Smart Printing Service (HCMSIU_SSPS) for serving 
students in its campuses to print their documents. 
The system consists of some printers around the campuses. Each printer has ID, 
brand/manufacturer name, printer model, short description, and the location (campus name, 
building name, and room number). 
The system allows a student to print a document by uploading a document file onto the system, 
choose a printer, and specifying the printing properties such as paper size, pages (of the file) to 
be printed, one-/double-sided, number of copies, etc. The permitted file types are limitted and 
configured by the Student Printing Service Officer (SPSO).  
The system has to log the printing actions for all students, including student ID, printer ID, file 
name, printing start and end time, number of pages for each page size. 
The system allows the SPSO to view the printing history (log) of all students or a student for a 
time period (date to date) and for all or some printers. Of course, a student can also view his/her 
printing log for a time period together with a summary of number of printed pages for each 
page size. 
For each semester, the university give each student a default number of A4-size pages for 
printing. Students are allowed to buy some more using the feature Buy Printing Pages of the 
system and pay the amount through some online payment system like the SIUPay system of the 
university. The system only allow a student to print some number of pages when it does not 
exeed his/her account (page) balance. Note that, one A3 page is equivalent to two A4 pages. 
The SPSO has a feature to manage printers such as add/enable/disable a printer. 
The SPSO also has a feature to manage other configuration of the system such as changing the 
default number of pages, the dates that the system will give the default number of pages to all 
students, the permitted file types accepted by the system. 
The reports of the using of the printing system are generated automatically at the end of each 
month and each year and are stored in the system, and can be viewed by the SPSO anytime. 
All users have to be authenticated by the HCMSIU_SSO authentication service before using 
the system. 
The system are provided through a web-based app and a mobile app. 
1 
2 
 ---------Task ---------- 
Task 1: 
Requirement 
elicitation 
1.1 
Describe the domain context of a smart printing service for students at 
HCMSIU. Who are relevant stakeholders? What are their current needs? In 
your opinion, what benefits HCMSIU-SSPS will be for each stakeholder? 
Hint: At least three paragraphs have to be written (1) a paragraph about 
domain context, (2) a paragraph about stakeholders and their needs, (3) a 
paragraph about the benefits of HCMSIU-SSPS for each stakeholder. The 
section has to be understandable, refer to reliable sources and information 
has to be justified. 
1.2 
Describe all functional and non-functional requirements that can be inferred 
from the project description.  
Hint: At least 05 functional requirements for each stakeholder. 
Requirements to be written as single sentences. The requirements must be 
complete, unambiguous, consistent and correct. The use case diagram has to 
be complete and correct syntactically. 
1.3 
Draw a use-case diagram for the whole system.  
Choose an important module and draw its use-case diagram, as well as 
describe the use-case using a table format 
Hint: one use case diagram shall be drawn. The use case diagram has to be 
complete and correct syntactically. One use-case description table for each 
use case using the example from the lecture. The number of steps in a use
case should be more than 3. At least one use-case should have an exception 
flow. 
Task 2: System 
modelling 
2.1 
Draw an activity diagram to capture the business process between systems 
and the stakeholders in a particular module (choose a module in Task 1.3) 
Hint: draw an activity diagram for each use case with a swimlane 
(https://circle.visual-paradigm.com/activity-diagram-example-swimlane/) 
for different stakeholders. The number of diagrams should be maximum 5. 
Try to use as many notations of the diagrams as possible 
(https://www.visual-paradigm.com/guide/uml-unified-modeling
language/what-is-activity-diagram/). Write 01 paragraph for each diagram 
to describe it. The diagrams should be correct and complete. 
2.2 
Draw a sequence diagram for a particular module (the same with the 
module used in task 2.1) 
Hint: draw 01 sequence diagram for each use case with a swimlane for 
different stakeholders. The number of diagrams should be maximum 5. Try 
to use as many notations of the diagram as possible (https://www.visual
paradigm.com/guide/uml-unified-modeling-language/what-is-sequence
diagram/) Write 01 paragraph for each diagram to describe it. The diagrams 
should be correct and complete. 
2.3 
Draw a class diagram of a particular module (the same with the module used 
in task 2.1) as comprehensive as possible 
Hint: draw 01 class diagram for the whole module. Try to use as many 
notations of the diagram as possible (https://www.visual
paradigm.com/guide/uml-unified-modeling-language/what-is-class
diagram/). The diagram should be correct and complete. 
3 
 
2.4 
Develop MVP 1 as user interfaces of either a Desktop-view central 
dashboard for a particular module (the same with the module used in task 
2.1). Decide yourself what to include in the view. Use a wireframe tool like 
Figma or Adobe XD, or Illustrator 
Hint: The wireframe shall be made from scratch. Language is Vietnamese. 
Any photos or materials taken from Internet has to give reference/ links. No 
implementation (backend or frontend) is needed at this stage. The user 
interface shall have at least 05 screens. There should be clickable links to 
navigate among the screen. The user interface should be as close to a final 
software’s screenshot as possible (high fidelity wireframe). 
Task 3: 
Architecture 
design 
3.1 
Use a layered architecture to design the HCMSIU-SSPS system. Describe how 
will you present your User Interface. Describe how will you store your data. 
Describe how you will access to external services/ APIs. 
Hint: draw 01 architectural diagram for the overall design of HCMSIU-SSPS 
system. Write 01 paragraph for your Presentation strategy, 01 paragraph for 
Data storage approach and 01 paragraph for API management. The 
architectural decisions in these paragraphs should be justified and 
associated with external links for detail approaches. 
3.2 
Draw a component diagram for an important module (the same with the 
module used in task 2.1) 
Hint: draw 01 component diagram for the whole module. Try to use as many 
notations of the diagram as possible (https://online.visual
paradigm.com/diagrams/tutorials/component-diagram-tutorial/). See the 
notation description from the lecture. Write 01 paragraph for each diagram 
to describe it. The diagram should be correct and complete. 
Task 4: 
Implementation – Sprint 1 
4.1 
Setting up an online repository (github, bitbucket, etc) for version control. 
Hint: setup Github (https://docs.github.com/en/get
started/quickstart/hello-world) and a hello world example. Every team shall 
have an account with public/ shareable links to the repository. 
4.2 
Adding documents, materials and folders for Requirement, System 
modelling and Architectural design. Use the selected version control system 
to report the changes to these files. 
Hint: the repository shall have a readme file. The repository shall be 
frequently maintained (basing on last updated time). 
4.3 
Conducted a usability test with the user interface you developed in MVP 1.  
Hint: follow the guideline https://www.nngroup.com/articles/usability
testing-101/ Key steps include: 1. Recruit participants/ testers. 2. Define 
tasks. 3. Define test strategy (qualitative vs. quantitative, remote vs. in
person. 4. Conduct the test. 5. Document the feedback from testers. All key 
steps shall be documented in 01 test report. The test report should be 
complete, understandable, having illustrative photos. The test report should 
be less than 10 A4 pages. 
Task 5: 
Implementation – Sprint 2 
5.1 
Develop MVP 2 with input from Task 2.4 and Task 4.3. You are free to 
choose the programming language (HTML, Javascript, Python, C#, etc). It is 
not required to implement a database in the backend. Data can be hard 
coded in code files. 
Hint: the MVP should be demonstrable in either a desktop view or a mobile 
view. The MVP should capture most important value for all stakeholders 
from the project description. The MVP should have at least 05 different 
screens/ views. There should be hyperlinks to navigate through views. 
4 
 
5.2 
Demonstrate the whole project from Task 1 to Task 5 
Hint: a presentation slide shall be prepared. Each team should practice the 
demonstrations many times in advance. The presentation should be straight 
to the point, contains lessons learned for the team. The demonstration 
should be prepared, correct, brief and has good quality.